# Linnean Core definitions

(From https://github.com/tdwg/wiki-archive/blob/master/twiki/data/UBIF/LinneanCoreDefinitions.txt)

<a id="RankDefinition"></a> **Rank**: A specific, most-precise taxonomic rank (including intermediate ranks, such as "Subgenus", "Subspecies", etc.). See [TaxonomicRankEnum](TaxonomicRankEnum). -- [Discussion](TaxonomicRankDiscussion)

<a id="RankGroupDefinition"></a> **Rank-group**: The "full" ranking groups. Within the context of Codes of nomenclature, these include only "Family-group", "Genus-group", and "Species-group". However, we will also need to deal with "Order-group", "Class-group", "Phylum-group", and "Kingdom-group" entities as well. Although "Phylum-group" is Zoo-centric, "Division" is used for different [ranks](#RankDefinition) by different disciplines (even different sub-disciplines within Zoology), and "Phylum" is only used for one [ranks](#RankDefinition). Therefore, it makes more sense to use "Phylum-group", "Phylum", "Subphylum", etc. -- and assume that these are all precisely synonymous with the botanical "Division" equivalencies. -- [Discussion](LCRankGroupDiscussion)

<a id="NameDefinition"></a> **Name**: A relationship between a name-literal (and hence name-string) and a named-object. It is recommeded to avoid this word as possible, but sometime inevitable.

<a id="NameLiteralDefinition"></a> **Name-literal**: A literal word (or words) designating at least one object. A single name-literal may designate multiple objects (homonymy) and multiple name-literals may designate single object (synonymy). A name-literal is an abstraction of a set of [name-usages](#NameUsageDefinition). A [name-string](#NameStringDefinition) is an electronic representation of a name-literal. A name-literal may have [variant spellings](#VariantSpellingDefinition); each variant is represented by a [name-string](#NameStringDefinition). -- [Discussion](LCNameLiteralDiscussion)

<a id="NameStringDefinition"></a> **Name-string**: The Unicode string equivalent of [name-literal](#NameLiteralDefinition) printed on paper or represented in an electronic document to indicate a scientific name within the scope of LinneanCore's domain. It does **not** include authorship, but does include markup such as parentheses around infrageneric/supraspecific [Name-units](#NameUnitDefinition), and infraspecific rank terms (e.g., subsp., var., f. etc.). -- [Discussion](LCNameStringDiscussion)

<a id="NameStringWithAuthorshipDefinition"></a> **Name-string with authorship**: A [Name-string](#NameStringDefinition) that includes the Code-appropriate authorships embedded within the [name-string](#NameStringDefinition). -- [Discussion](LCNameStringDiscussionWithAuthorship)

<a id="NameUnitDefinition"></a> **Name-unit**: A portion of a multi-part [name-string](#NameStringDefinition) that constitutes one discrete [Rank](#RankDefinition). There do not appear to be any cases where a single name-unit would contain a space (" "), but it may include a hyphen ("-") or other characters outside the standard letters. It is a token composing name-string, technically. -- [Discussion](LCNameUnitDiscussion)

<a id="NameUsageDefinition"></a> **Name-usage**: The appearance of a [Name-string](#NameStringDefinition) within a [Reference](#ReferenceDefinition). -- [Discussion](LCNameUsageDiscussion)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a id="BasionymDefinition"></a> **Basionym**: A role a name can have in relation to another name which is explicitly based upon the basionym name. Specifically, in genus or rank changing recombinations ("comb. nov.", "stat. nov.") the new name is based on a basionym name. The basionym of a name is always a [Protonym](#ProtonymDefinition) (= [Original Name](#OriginalNameDefinition) or [Replacement Name](#ReplacementNameDefinition)). The role of the basionym is very similar to the role of the [Replaced Synonym](#ReplacedSynonymDefinition) in the case of "nom. nov.". [Discussion](LCProtonymDiscussion)

<a id="BasalNameDefinition"></a> **Basal Name** or **basonym**: A role name for a name in a nomenclatural relationship, including [Basionym](#BasionymDefinition) and [Replaced Synonym](#ReplacedSynonymDefinition). -- [Discussion](LCProtonymDiscussion)

<a id="ReplacementNameDefinition"></a> **Replacement Name**: A new name that replaces an existing name (= [Replaced Synonym](#ReplacedSynonymDefinition)). [Discussion](LCProtonymDiscussion)

<a id="OriginalNameDefinition"></a> **Original Name**: A name that introduces a new epithet and originally designates a type specimen (or other typification, including iconotype etc.). Multiple original names may accidentially based on the same type specimen. However, cases where a name is explicitly based to an older name (comb. nov,, stat. nov., nom. nov.) should not be considered original names. -- [Discussion](LCProtonymDiscussion)

<a id="ProtonymDefinition"></a> **Protonym**: A name that introduced a new epithet the first time. This is the case in [Original Names](#OriginalNameDefinition) (not based on previously published nomenclatural names) and in the case of [Replacement Names](#ReplacementNameDefinition) (= "nom. nov.", = avowed substitute). -- [Discussion](LCProtonymDiscussion)

<a id="NewCombinationDefinition"></a> **New combination**: A re-use of a previously-existing [Protonym](#ProtonymDefinition) (= [Original Name](#OriginalNameDefinition) or [Replacement Names](#ReplacementNameDefinition)) in a different nomenclatural context. In the botany world these are thought of as discrete "names", separate from their [protonyms](#ProtonymDefinition); but in Zoology they are usually thought of as merely different contextual usages of a pre-existing "name" ([protonym](#ProtonymDefinition)). Although ICZN does not have any rules to determine which "revised contextual usages" of pre-existing [protonyms](#ProtonymDefinition) constitute an "official" New Combination, in most cases it will be more or less unambiguously determinable who first placed a pre-existing species epithet into a different nomenclatural context. In any case, New combinations ONLY in the context of a particular kind of usage that represents a subsequent use of a pre-existing [protonym](#ProtonymDefinition) in a novel nomenclatural context (e.g., the first placement of an existing species epithet into a different genus than the epithet was originally described in (i.e., the nomenclatural context of it's [Protonym](#ProtonymDefinition)). -- [Discussion](LCNewCombinationDiscussion)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a id="VariantSpellingDefinition"></a> **Variant spelling**: This term refers to variant spellings (i.e., slightly different [Name-strings](#LCNameStringDiscussion)) used for what is otherwise a pre-existing [Protonym](#ProtonymDefinition) or [New Combination](#NewCombinationDefinition). These include intentional variations (e.g., alternate gender forms of Species-group epithets), as well as unintentional variations (i.e., [Lapsus](#LapsusDefinition)). Variant spellings exist ONLY in the context of a [Name-usage](#NameUsageDefinition). -- [Discussion](LCVariantSpellingDiscussion)

<a id="LapsusDefinition"></a> **Lapsus**: A particular kind of [Variant spelling](#VariantSpellingDefinition) that represents an unintentional alternate [Name-string](#NameStringDefinition) (e. g., typographical error). -- [Discussion](LCLapsusDiscussion)

<a id="ReferenceDefinition"></a> **Reference**: Any form of DOCUMENTED date-stamped instance of one or more Authors (Agents). This is broadly defined to include forms of documentation outside the context of [Publications](#PublicationDefinition). "Documented" means that at least one physical (paper) or "permanent" electronic representation/facsimilie of information presented by Agent-Authors at a specific date/time is archived somewhere. Besides [Publications](#PublicationDefinition), these can include things like written personal communication (or archived representation of verbal personal communication), specimen labels, field notebooks, etc., etc. -- [Discussion](LCReferenceDiscussion)

<a id="DocumentationDefinition"></a> **Documentation**: Synonym of the [Reference](#ReferenceDefinition) with less ambiguity; the word 'reference' is also used as relationship, just like the word 'name' can be used either name-string or name-object-relationship. -- Discussion on [Reference](LCReferenceDiscussion) and [Publication](LCPublicationDiscussion)

<a id="PublicationDefinition"></a> **Publication**: A special subset of [References](#ReferenceDefinition) that have been "published" in some way (perhaps best to define "publication" in accordance with ICZN/ICBN rules governing publications????) -- [Discussion](LCPublicationDiscussion)

<a id="UnpublishedDocumentationDefinition"></a> **Unpublished Documentation**: Permanently documented information (e.g. on paper, in digital format) that has not been published to a wider audience. This includes letters, laboratory or field books. It does not include forms of information attribution like "pers. comm.", which are not documented in any way. (Gregor) -- [Discussion](LCUnpublishedDocumentationDiscussion)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

(From https://github.com/tdwg/wiki-archive/blob/master/twiki/data/UBIF/LinneanCoreSomePrivateConceptDefinitions.txt)

<a id="TypeConceptDefinition"></a> **Type Concept**: A concept defined through a **single point in the "biodiversity space"**, the type specimen. Based on priority of publication, a name string will be fixed to this point, and reversely. The type specimen may be referred to directly or indirectly (e.g. when a name is based on another name as in new combinations, or higher taxa typified through other names). The rules of nomenclature in bacteriology, botany, and zoology are based on this type concept. The concept itself has no value when identifying unknown organisms, but it serves as a basis for the circumscription concepts layered on top of it. The advantage of this concept is that the available identifier name-space for taxon names can be governed by strict rules and some stability in the association between circumscription and name-string-with/without-authors can be achieved. (I believe this is what is sometimes called nomenclatural "name-object".) -- [Discussion](LCConceptConceptsDiscussion)

<a id="CircumscriptionConceptDefinition"></a> **Character circumscription Concept**: A concept defining a classification method for unidentified biological individuals. The circumscription uses characteristical properties that are inherited (usually genetically) from parents to children. It is therefore valid over extended periods of time. Circumscription Concepts may exist for taxa at all ranks. -- This is the only concept used in identification. This kind of taxon concept is often loosely referred to as a "taxon concept" and contrasted to a name. The result of multiple incongruent taxon circumscriptions on knowledge gathered about organism included in these circumscriptions is difficult to analyze (except where voucher specimens can be reanalyzed under both concepts). Making such comparisons operational is the main point in dealing with taxon concept logic. -- [Discussion](LCConceptConceptsDiscussion)

<a id="SpecimenSetConceptDefinition"></a> **Specimen Set Concept**: A circumscription may also consist of multiple specimens listed as being studied ("Specimen circumscription", especially studied in the Prometheus I model by Jessie). Non-type specimens other then the type I believe are examples rather than types (alhtough they may have special nomenclatural importance for lecto/neotypification, or illegitimate superfluous names). -- &lt;br/&gt;Note: Always having to use "character circumscription concept" and "specimen circumscription concept" seems to be difficult. It may simplify communication if we could agree to use "circumscription concept" as a shorthand for "character circumscription". Since the specimen circumscription concept is a specimen set, I suggest to use "Set concept" when referring to these.

<a id="HierarchyConceptDefinition"></a> **Hierarchy Concept**: Or perhaps enumerated concept instead? A tree of concepts based on other concepts. This has no value for identification. If the result of an identification is directly a genus or family, the identification must be based on a circumscription concept, not on an application of the hierarchy knowledge. Different hierarchies superimposed on knowledge associated -- [Discussion](LCConceptConceptsDiscussion)
